Dear fellow practitioners, regarding the
three-month retreat program
of the monks, the teachings of Han Quan have already
explained it clearly. However, here,
Han Quan still urges you all that wisdom
is essential for
a sentient being.
Wisdom affirms class, affirms status, affirms birth. That is,
where we are born
depends on wisdom and merit. Therefore, practicing the Buddha Dharma
is a supreme opportunity for
us. From countless lifetimes, our minds are full of greed. Only through the Buddha's teachings can we
attain Buddha-wisdom.
Only through the Buddha's teachings can we learn the Buddha
's doctrines and
become wise.
Therefore, if we do not
practice, if we do not use the Buddha's right view to
change our wrong views—that is, if we abandon our
own views and adopt the Buddha's views
as our own—then gradually
we will become Buddhas, won't we? That is,
if we do not learn...  In Buddhist teachings,
we only see our own understanding.
It's the understanding accumulated from
countless lifetimes of ignorance. Now, when
we study Buddhist teachings, we abandon our own
understanding and replace it with the
understanding of the Buddha, and gradually we will become
Buddhas.
Therefore, practicing Buddhism cannot be done without studying and practicing. A Buddhist practitioner who
says they don't study Buddhist teachings
truly doesn't understand anything about
learning, let alone studying Buddhism. You
have to study any subject to become a Buddha. It's
not that Buddhist teachings are so profound.
Buddhist teachings are very profound
because no one has ever taught Buddhist teachings to ordinary people; they
only teach each other the
Buddha's doctrines. No one knows the
Buddha's teachings and can teach ordinary people
their own opinions. They
can only help each other learn Buddhist teachings.
Therefore, if we want to become
saints or Buddhas, we cannot be
lazy in our practice. If we want happiness,
we cannot be lazy in our practice. So, the
three months of practicing during the An cư kiết Hạo retreat of the
monks is a karmic connection for
us in the future.  Our renunciation of worldly life is a karmic connection for
future renunciations. Why is it that some people, in
this life, are free from worldly attachments and can renounce worldly life and become
monks or nuns? It's because in their
previous lives they were accustomed to the world of
monastic life, they were already inclined towards monastic life,
they lived and
practiced according to Buddhist teachings, and
now they can just walk straight ahead.
But we are still hesitant and indecisive, reading Buddhist scriptures so
much, where do we find the time to
read and practice so much? I still have
worldly worries. Of course, we are born into this world with
many constraints, but let's
try our best, dear fellow practitioners. Let's try our best,
let's try our best to
direct our minds towards Buddhist teachings so that in the next life
we ​​will have the karmic connection to renounce worldly life. Instead of wandering
in this Saha world, preoccupied with
matters of food, clothing, and money from morning
till night, only thinking about what tastes good and
what looks good, without any thoughts
beyond that, thoughts that don't
go beyond the rice pot, right? Thoughts that do
n't go beyond the rice pot, thoughts that
don't go beyond this body, eating.
Let this body be used to
build houses for this body, from countless
lifetimes, whether as an animal or a
human, we keep saying we are rich, we keep saying
our thoughts are noble, but in
reality, it's just about satisfying our own
desires. What fame do we gain? Isn't that right? But all of that is governed by impermanence, and all of that is the seed, the source of suffering.
We must awaken to this. We
are children of Buddha, we must
awaken. We seek happiness, but it turns
out we only seek suffering. At weddings,
who wishes each other happiness? Who wishes each
other happiness?
But who can find happiness? Is
n't that right, dear friends? Everyone wishes
each other happiness, then we have children, we plan, plan,
calculate, and do
all sorts of things hoping for their happiness.
But in reality, they follow their karma; as long as
they still have greed, they ca
n't be happy. Is
n't that right, dear friends? As long as they are still greedy, they can't be
happy. Therefore,
this practice is for us to have the opportunity to
...  Once we have opened our minds,
we will have the opportunity to walk this path peacefully in the next life. It's
not about hoping to become a monk in the
next life, but
not truly practicing the monastic life in this life. A
monastic life requires three
months of retreat. We must practice the
monastic life; in a year of twelve months, three
months are dedicated to the retreat. This is a regulation of the
Buddhas of the Ten Directions and Three Times. Therefore,
we Buddhists must internalize this three-month practice each year. In the
next life, we will hear that the monks are practicing
this three-month retreat, that they have this
schedule, this daily meditation, this chanting of scriptures. We become so
familiar with it that we feel
joyful, without any sense of right or wrong, that we can truly
become a monk. Isn't that right, Venerable Ones? Without
practice, how can we achieve enlightenment?
Therefore, the three-month retreat program is very important for ourselves, and also
for the spiritual communities around us.
We maintain a program for three consecutive months,
so if any beings
follow us, they can
attain enlightenment and maintain it for a period of time within
that practice program. That
's very beneficial. We have
the Sutra of the Hungry Ghosts; when they hear the
sutra, they attain
enlightenment. So, maintaining
this practice is very good.
This practice program is different
from other programs. In
commemorative programs, we
chant sutras on the first day, and
then on the following days we
listen to Dharma teachings and invite
beings to the alms-giving ceremony because it only lasts six
days. However, this program
is a continuous three-month program, so
we must chant sutras and listen to
Dharma teachings fully before we can invite beings
to the worldly altar. In other
programs, for example, some people who can't chant
sutras only listen to Dharma teachings and meditate are
still considered to be practicing the Rains Retreat, but they don't
invite beings to the
worldly altar because if we want to invite them,
we have to...  Is it true that one must
have a sincere heart? At least one must have a sincere
heart for practice, right? Only then can one make requests.
Without a sincere heart,
what can one do? Without a sincere heart,
where can one repent? Where can one demand dedication for
sentient beings? And regarding the
chanting program, the opening and
closing ceremonies must be followed completely. As for the remaining
chanting days, whoever can
follow them all is good, otherwise, there
will be a short chanting program, followed by chanting and a
prayer.
That's a short chanting program, similar to the one for the first day of the lunar
month. Dear Great Friends, there
's only a short chanting program to keep it
brief so that you can have
time. We can chant anywhere we can. We make a request to the
Buddha, then we
chant, and after chanting,
we offer our prayers. That's a very short practice.
[Music]